# Basic C Sharp Projects
This repository is for the C# and .NET Framework Course that is part of my Advanced Software and Web Developer Diploma with Pitman Training / The Tech Academy. This repository is for basic C# projects done on the course.

## C# AND .NET FRAMEWORK - PART 1

## 01 - COMPILER ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Compiler%20Assignment/SampleApplication.cs)
This was a simple assignment to add the C# compiler location to the Windows Environment Variable 'PATH' then through use of the command line create both an executable (.exe file) and a library (.dll file) of the code within 'SampleApplication.cs' which prints "Hello, World" to the console.

## 02 - VISUAL STUDIO ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/myConsoleProject/myConsoleProject.cs/Program.cs)
This assignment was to write a basic console application within Visual Studio using C#. The application ask the user to input there name, which is then displayed to the user before the user presses enter to quit the application.

## 03 - TUTORIAL: HELLO, WORLD! [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Hello%20World%20Tutorial/program.cs)
A code along project following an instructor to show further understanding of using the C# compiler and creating basic console applications using Visual Studio.

## 04 - CHALLENGE 4B-1 - ESCAPE SEQUENCES [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Challenge_4B-1/Challenge_4B-1_Escape_Sequence/Program.cs)
A very simple console app which prints my name in double-quotes through use of the backslash (\) escape character.

## 05 - BASIC C# SUBMISSION ASSIGNMENT - WELCOME SCREEN [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Basic_CSharp_Submission_Assignment/AccountingWelcome/AccountingWelcome/Program.cs)
A console app welcoming the user to 'Acme Accounting Systems' and prints the second line of text with "accounting" in double-quotes using the backslash (\) escape character.

## 06 - TUTORIAL: VARIABLES AND DATA TYPES [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Variables%20and%20Data%20Types%20Tutorial/VariablesAndDataTypes/VariablesAndDataTypes/Program.cs)
A follow on video series that goes through the various C# data types and how to assign variables and output them along with examples of how to cast them into other data types.

## 07 - DAILY REPORT ASSIGNMENT SUBMISSION [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Daily_Report/DailyReport/DailyReportSubmissionAssignment/Program.cs)
A simple console application that asks the user to answer some questions then we store the inputs in appropriate data types, casting when necessary, then at the end of the application we output all the inputs before exiting the application.

## 08 - CHALLENGE 7B-1 - MATH OPERATIONS [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Challenge_7B-1/Challenge_7B-1_Math/Program.cs)
The goals for this challenge were to add, subtract, multiply and divide two numbers and display the output in addition to this I also completed an operations calulating the remainder of two number through use of the modules operator, also added introduction and exit messages to the application.

## 09 - CHALLENGE 7B-2 - STRING CONCATENATION [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Challenge_7B-2/Challenge_7B-2_Str_Concat/Program.cs)
A simple challege were we are required to perform a math operation (string concatenation) on a string, three variables are declared each concatenated with a label and displayed on screen, then finally the three strings are concatenated together again with their own label and again outputted to the display.

## 10 - TUTORIAL: MATH AND COMPARISON OPERATORS [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Math_Comparsion_Op/MathAndComparsionOperators/Program.cs)
A code along project done alongside a two-part video series initally reviewing C# math operators. Then in the second part of the series we go over the standard comparison operators within C# we cover less than, greater than, equal to and not equal to.

## 11 - MATH OPERATION ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/MathOpAssign/MathOpAssignment/Program.cs)
A submission assignment to test my knowledge of math operators, includes examples of addition, subtraction, multiplacation, divison, modulus (remainder) and greater than operations.

## 12 - INCOME COMPARISON ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/IncomeComparisonAssign/IncomeComparison/Program.cs)
An anonymous income comparison program, which takes the hourly rate and weekly hours worked of two people, works out their annual wage and then performs a boolean operation showing if Person 1 earns more than Person 2.

## 13 - TUTORIAL: BOOLEAN LOGIC [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/BooleanLogic/BooleanLogic/Program.cs)
A follow on video covering boolean logic operators so AND (&&), OR (||), EQUALS (==), NOT EQUALS (!=), and XOR (^) with simple code examples.

## 14 - BOOLEAN LOGIC ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/CarInsurAppAssign/CarInsurAppAssign/Program.cs)
A simple assignment in which we take three inputs from the user, their age, if they have ever had a dui and how many speeding tickets they have had and use these to determine if the user qualifies for car insurance. We then output the result of this boolean logic check to the console window as part of a string.

## 15 - CHALLENGE 10A-1 - IF / ELSE / ELSE IF STATEMENTS [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Challenge_10A-1/Challenge10A-1/Program.cs)
A demonstration of the use of IF / ELSE and ELSE IF statements within C#, taking input from the user and using it to execute branching statements.

## 16 - CHALLENGE 10B-1 - NOT EQUALS (!=) OPERATOR [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Challenge_10B-1/Challenge10B-1/Program.cs)
A demonstration of the use of the NOT EQUALS operator (!=) within C#, again taking user input and using it to execute branching statements.

## 17 - CHALLENGE 10B-2 - GREATER OR LESS THAN OPERATORS [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Challenge_10B-2/Challenge10B-2/Program.cs)
A challenge to show that I understand how to use both the greater than and less than or equal to operator, this is shown alongside the use of IF statements.

## 18 - CHALLENGE 11A-1 - TERNARY OPERATORS [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Challenge_11A-1/Challenge_11A-1/Program.cs)
A challenge to demonstrate an understanding of ternary operators in C#.

## 19 - TUTORIAL: BRANCHING [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Branching/Branching/Program.cs)
The code that I wrote while following along with the branching tutorial video.

## 20 - PRICE-QUOTE ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Price-Quote_App/Price-Quote_App_Assign/Program.cs)
The graded assignment for this course, a price-quote application where we give a price-quote for an package that the user wishes to deliver, the user must provide the weight, height, width and length of the package then we will calulate the cost to ship the package. If the package either weighs more than a certian amount or is bigger than a certain size we must decline to give a quote and end the program at that point. If the package is ok we calculate a price to ship the package in pounds sterling and then thank the user before exiting the application.

## 21 - CHALLENGE 12A-1 - SWITCH STATEMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Challenge_12A-1/Challenge_12A-1/Program.cs)
An example use of the switch statement within C#. We prompt the user to enter a number between 1 and 5 and then execute a switch statement on the user input, executing one of five case statements to recommend a game to the user, their is also a default case if the user does not enter a number between 1 and 5.

## 22 - TUTORIAL: LOOPS [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Loops/Loops/Program.cs)
A tutorial code along which covers loops in C#, we review the switch statement then cover WHILE loops and an example of using a DO WHILE loop in conjunction with a switch statement were we ask the user to guess a number and the program loops until the user guesses correctly.

## 23 - LOOPS ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/LoopsAssign/LoopsAssign/Program.cs)
An assignment to demonstrate an understanding of "while" and "do while" loops in C# using boolean comparison to control the loops in question.

## 24 - STRING ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/StringAssign/StringAssign/Program.cs)
An assignment utilising string functions. First an example of concatenating three strings together, then using the ToUpper() method to convert a string to upper case and using a StringBuilder object to create a paragraph within a string but by adding one sentence at a time using the append method.

## C# AND .NET FRAMEWORK - PART 2

## 01 - TUTORIAL: ARRAYS AND LISTS [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/ArraysAndLists/ArraysAndLists/Program.cs)
A tutorial video covering arrays and lists within C#. Firstly we cover how to instantiate an array and fill it with values before creating a second array and filling it with values upon instantiation, then outputing elements of the array to the console. The second part of the tutorial covers lists and how to create one, then adding and removing elements along with outputting to the display.

## 02 - ARRAYS ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/ArraysAssign/ArraysAssign/Program.cs)
An assignment were we have to complete four different goals, firstly to create a one-dimensional array of strings then request an index number from the user and display the content of that index within our array, then do the same thing but with an array of integer values instead, then create a list of string values and again ask the user to select an index value and display the value at that position. For all three data structures we have a do while loop along side both if and else statements which check the value the user has entered and if it is outside the range of the array or list we inform the user and then ask them to enter a valid index number, this process repeats until the user enters a valid index position.

## 03 - TUTORIAL: ITERATION [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Iteration/Iteration/Program.cs)
A tutorial video covering the use of iteration within C#. We firstly iterate through an array of numbers utilising a for loop and output any values that are greater than 85 to the console, then we iterate through an array of strings and output any names which equal Jesse, we then also iterate throught the same array printing each value as we go. Then we move on to iterating through list and for the first time making use of a foreach loop to again check for any passing score greater than 85, then after repeating this with a list of strings we iterate through one list while add any values that meet certain condition to a second list before counting that lists number of elements and outputting that value to the console.

## 04 - CONSOLE APPLICATION ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/ConAppAssign/ConAppAssign/Program.cs)
An assignment to demonstrate an understanding of iteration utilising both arrays and lists. Part 1 has us creating an array of strings, then requesting user input and then updating each element within the array with a concatenation of the value in that index plus the userr input, we then output each element in the updated array to the console. Then for the second part of the assignment we create an infinite while loop then demonstrate how to fix it, then for the third part of the assignment we have a for loop that make use of the less than operator and then a do while loop using the less or equal than operator, for the fourth part we create a list of unique string variables and ask the user to input a search string, we then search the list for the search string and output the index of the position with a match and then use the break command to end the loop, also if there is no match in the list we inform the user. Then for the fifth part of the assignment we create a second list with two duplicate entries and return the index position for both matching entries and again inform the user if there is no match. The final part of the assignment again has a list with duplicate entries but this time we have a second empty list which we add each item from the first list too, then when we find an entry that has already been added to this list we know we have a duplicate entry and inform the user of this fact.

## 05 - TUTORIAL: EXCEPTION HANDLING [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/ExceptionHandling/ExceptionHandling/Program.cs)
A two-part tutorial video series covering exception handling within C#. We demonstrate this technique by requesting the user input two integer values and dividing them by two, if the user enters a letter instead of a number a catch block will run and give the user an error message. In the second part of the tutorial we catch DivideByZeroExceptions to catch if the user attempts to divide a number by zero and then general exception to catch any other type of error, then we cover the finally statement to ensure certain code always run no matter what.

## 06 - EXCEPTION ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/ExceptionAssign/ExceptionAssign/Program.cs)
An assignment where we generate a list of six random integers between 1 and 100 then ask the user to enter a whole number we then divide each number in the list by the number the user has entered and output each to the console. Initally there was no try / catch block implemented and within the code comments I have logged the number generate by the application, my input as the user and the error message visual studio gave, this can ben seen after the program source code. Then we implement the code with in a try / catch block along with a finally block, the catch block catches both FormatExceptions and DivideByZeroExceptions along with outputting appropriate error messages and the finally block executes to inform the user that normal program execution has resumed.

## 07 - TUTORIAL: CLASSES AND OBJECTS - TWENTY-ONE (BLACKJACK CARD GAME) [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne/Program.cs)
A tutorial series covering how classes and objects work within C#, this tutorial works differently to the other ones as we will develop a game as we go along, which will be a blackjack game. The first thing we do create a new class definition to represent a playing card and give it two properties Suit and Face as these are all we need to represent a playing card within a program. Then in the second part of the series we create a Deck object which is a list of the card objects that we created, we can then use a constructor to create a full deck of cards for us everytime we create an instance of the Deck object. For the third part of the tutorial we update the deck objects constructor to create one list of strings to represent the suits in a deck of cards and a second list of strings to represent the faces in a deck of cards, we then use nested foreach loops to create a full deck of 52 cards, this will happen each time we instanstiate a new instance of the deck object. Then iterate through each element of the deck object and output it to the console to ensure the deck has been created.

## 08 - TUTORIAL: METHODS [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne/Program.cs)
Carrying on with our blackjack game from the objects and classes tutorial, this next part covers methods within C#. We create a method which takes an instance of the deck object then one-by-one at random takes a card from the deck and moves it to another deck, then once the original is empty it is updated with the tempoary shuffled deck, this new deck is then returned to the main program and outputted to the console to show that it has been shuffled.

## 09 - METHOD ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/MethodAssign/MethodAssign/Program.cs)
An assignment to demonstrate our understanding of how classes and methods work in C#. We first create a seperate class and implement three methods, one to simply multiply a number by ten, one to calculate the square root and finally one that multiplies a number by 125 then divides the result of that by 2. We then take a number as user input and apply the above 3 methods to it and output the results to the console.

## 10 - TUTORIAL: MORE ON METHODS [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne/Program.cs)
Again continuing with our blackjack game, in this video we want to add the ability to shuffle more than once and we go through a number of methods to achieve this including method overloading which involves having multiple methods that have the same name but are slightly different, then we improve our inital shuffle method in two ways, firstly by adding in an optional parameter to control the number of times the deck is shuffled, then we add an output parameter to the method so that we can track and show to the user the number of times the deck was successfully shuffled.

## 11 - CLASSES AND METHODS ASSIGNMENT 1 [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Class_Meth_Ass_1/Class_Meth_Ass_1/Program.cs)
This is an assignment to demonstrate our understanding of classes and methods, we create a class and add three methods all with the same name, each takes a different type of input an integer, decimal and string variable respectably we then in all three methods return an integer back to the main program and output the result to the console. The purpose of this assignment is to show an understaning of method overloading within C#.

## 11 - CLASSES AND METHODS ASSIGNMENT 2 [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Class_Meth_Ass_2/Class_Meth_Ass_2/Program.cs)
For this assignment we make use of optional parameters for custom methods, we again create a class and add a method that takes two inputs one of which is an optional parameter which defaults to one if no value is passed in, a math operation is then performed on these inputs and the result is then returned to the main program. To account for the user not entering a second input we use the string method IsNullOrEmpty which checks if a string variable is empty (null) or not, we then know if we need to pass in our optional parameter or not, then with either outcome we output the result to the console.

## 12 - CLASSES AND METHODS ASSIGNMENT 3 [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Class_Meth_Ass_3/Class_Meth_Ass_3/Program.cs)
The final assignment on classes and methods main difference is to code a method that is void (does not return a value) and to execute the method but naming the parameters by name when executing the method in question.

## 13 - TUTORIAL: CLASS METHOD [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne/Program.cs)
An explanation of class methods which cover method attached to classes (objects), to demonstrate this we move the shuffle method from the main program to the deck class and then update the shuffle method so that it can operate on an instance of itself, this includes removing the static keyword so the method can operate on an instance of itself, adding the void keyword as we no longer need to return anything, losing the deck input parameter and the output parameter, then updating the main program to reflect these changes.

## 14 CLASS METHOD ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/ClassMethodAssign/ClassMethodAssign/Program.cs)
A simple assignment to show understanding of the above tutorial, we create a static voided method with one input and one output integer parameter, which simply divides a number by 2 and outputs the result via a parameter instead of returning it, we also create an overloaded version of this method with an optional parameter to multiply the answer by an amount provided by the user, this defaults to one if nothing is provided.

## 15 TUTORIAL: INHERITANCE [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
A two-part video tutorial covering how inheritance works in regards to object-orientated programming by implementing it within our blackjack game, we add a game class to the application, this is a basic game class that only contains properties and methods which all card games would have in common, so that down the line if we wanted to create other card games they could inherit this generic game class. Then in the second part of the tutorial we create another class called TwentyOneGame which inherits the Game class, we successfully test that inheritance is working by running the ListPlayers method which it is now inheriting from the Game Class (This is called a Superclass method), we finally implement a Play method in the TwentyOneGame class, we do not implement this for now but do throw a NotImplementedException if this is run by mistake.

## 16 INHERITANCE ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/InheritanceAssign/InheritanceAssign)
Following on from the inheriance tutorial, a simple assignment to show our understanding of inheritance. We first create a Person class which has string properties for the person's first and last name along with a method to output their full name to the console. Then we create a second class which is called Employee which inherits the Person class and has one property Id an integer value. We then instantiate an instant of the Employee class within the main program and assign values to the FirstName and LastName properties, then to test that the inheritance is working we execute the superclass method SayName which is inherited from the Person class.

## 17 TUTORIAL: POLYMORPHISM [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
This tutorial covers the second pillar of object-orientated programming, Polymorphism which allows the properties / methods of a class to morph into another, we cover this by creating a new instance of the TwentyOneGame class which we then morph into an instance of the game class, this is a simple example of what Polymorphism is. Then we move on to some house cleaning for our Twenty-One game, firstly by adding in a Player class, with properties to represent the player's hand of cards, current balance, their name and to track if they are currently playing or not. Then we add a Dealer class to the application with properties for their name, deck of cards and current balance, then we add a method to deal a card to the dealers playing Hand, this is done by passing in a list of Card objects to represent the Dealer's hand, we then take the first card from the deck of cards and add it to the dealer's deck before removing it from the deck of cards.

## 18 TUTORIAL: ABSTRACT CLASSES [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
An tutorial coverting Abstract classes, abstract methods and virtual methods. An abstract class is one in which we can never instantiate an instance of but we can inherit it, so we make the Game class in our Twenty-One game an abstract class, we also add an abstract method to this class called Play() which has to be implemented by any class that inherits the Game Class, then we implement a virtual method by converting the ListPlayers() method of the Game class to one, this one already has an implementation but by using the override keyword in a inheriting class we can override the base implmentation and do a new one in any class that inherits the Game class. Then to finish we create an instance of the TwentyOneGame class in the main program, add three players and using the ListPlayers() method, output those names to the console.

## 19 ABSTRACT CLASSES ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Abstract_Classes_Assign/Abstract_Classes_Assign)
A simple assignment to show our understanding of abstract classes, like the inheritance assignment we first create a person class, with properties for first and last name but this time the class is an abstract class, we also add a SayName() method which is also abstract so is not implemented here. Then we create an Employee class which inherits from the Person class, then here we implement the sayName() method through use of the override keyword.

## 20 TUTORIAL: INTERFACES [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
A brief tutorial covering interfaces in C# and the .NET Framework. We add an interface to our Twenty-One game called IWalkAway then we add a method called WalkAway to the interface, as interfaces work very similarly to abstract classes we do not have to implement the method here. We inherit the IWalkAway interface into the TwentyOneGame class and implement the method there.

## 21 INTERFACES ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Interfaces_Assign/Interfaces_Assign)
An assignment to cover our understanding of intefaces in the .NET framework. We first create an interface called IQuittable and create an abstract method called Quit(), we then reuse the Person and Employee classes from the Abstract Classes assignment but the Employee class in addition to inheriting the Person class also inherits the IQuittable interface and implements the Quit() method which outputs a simple message to the console. Then within the main program we utilise polymorphism to create an instance of our interface IQuittable but create it using our Employee class.

## 22 TUTORIAL: DEBUGGING [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
A brief tutorial covering how to use the debug tools within Visual Studio, mainly covering breakpoints, then the step-in and step-over functions and how to make use of these tools to track variables and conditional and branching statements.

## 23 TUTORIAL: OPERATOR OVERLOADING [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
A video covering how to overload operators, overloading operators allow you to create your own versions of those operators, so for example you could add two object together, in the case of our TwentyOne game this involves adding an instance of the player object to the game object, as a game needs the ability to add players to the game. We overload both the '+' and '-' operators to do this, buy passing in instances of the player and game objects, these are defined in the player class and because we utilise polymorphism, these methods can be used if we wanted to create other card games in the future.

## 24 OPERATOR OVERLOADING ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Overload_Op_Assign/Overload_Op_Assign)
An assignment to make use of overloading opertors. We reuse the Employee and Person classes from prior assignments again, then within the Employee class we overload the "==" operator but to follow the rules of the .NET framework we must also overload the "!=", Equals and GetHashCode operators. As all of these operators and methods are meant to check for equality the must all be overidden to maintain said equailty. When we overload the "==" operator we check the Ids of two different instances of the Employee object to see if they match.

## 25 TUTORIAL: GENERICS [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
An overview in regards to generics in programming which covers the concept of making a class or method generic in it's design as this lends more towards being able to reuse the code in future. We then make some tempoary changes to the program by adjusting the Player class so that we can pass in the T parameter, we then adjust the Hand property to change the data type of the Hand list object to be whatever parameter is passed in via the T parameter, this in turn makes the Player class more generic allowing it to be more easily reused in other game types other than just card games. We then switch the program back to how it was after this is done.

## 26 GENERICS ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Generics_Assign/Generics_Assign)
An assignment to implement the things we learned in the generics tutorial, we again reuse the People / Employee classes from the prior assignments but we update the Employee class so that the class takes the parameter T at object instantiation which represents the data type of that object, we then add a property Things which will be a list of the data type passed in. Then within the main program we instantiate two instances of the Employee class one passing in string as a data type and another passing in integer as a data type, we then assign lists of the corresponding data types to the Things properties of each object. Then finally we add some values to each instance of the Employee object before outputting the values to the console to show that the objects are working.

## 27 TUTORIAL: ENUMS [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
A two-part tutorial covering enums, enums are a data-type containing a number of pre-determined values by the programmer like the days of the week for example. So when using enums within our TwentyOne game we implement them within our card class by making a Suit enum to represent the four card suits, we then adjust the Suit property of the Card class to be of this enum type. In the second part, we also add a face enum to the application so that both the cards classes face and suit properties are now represented using enums, we then recode the Deck classes constructor to work with the new enums and also utilise a new method of casting.

## 28 ENUMS ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Generics_Assign/Generics_Assign/Program.cs)
An assignment to cover enums, we first create an enum to represent the days of the week then ask the user to enter the current day of the week into the program, we then check that the input is text and not all numbers, if it is we inform the user not to enter numbers and end the application. We then create an instance of the enum DaysOfTheWeek we then attempt to parse the enum using the user input and if we succeed we assign the appropriate value to the enum variable we just created, if we get an exception then we catch it and inform the user to enter an actual day of the week.

## 29 TUTORIAL: STRUCTS [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
A two part video covering structures or "structs" in C#. The first part of the tutorial explains a rule of data types within C#, which is that they are all either value types or reference types but that all class objects are reference types. This example is demonstrated by creating an instance of the Card class then assign that instance to another Card data type, this does not create a new instance but instead creates a reference to the original data type, because Card is create from a class definition when assigning one data type of that class with another it will be a refernce to that original instance, it will not create a new one. Then in the second part of the tutorial we further cover this concept by changing the card class to a struct, unlike classes which are reference types structs are value types, other examples of value types are integers, boolean, enums and datetime data types. Then we reuse the example from the first part of the tutorial but this time we do get two seperate instance of our now Card struct. Remember that a Class is a reference type where as a Struct is a value type that cannot be inherited.

## 30 STRUCTS ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Structs_Assign/Structs_Assign)
A simple excerise where implement a struct called Number give it a value and then output that value to the console.

## 31 TUTORIAL: LAMBDA EXPRESSIONS [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
Tutorial covering lambda expressions, lambda expressions in C# expose lists to a selection of methods and expressions that make live easier. Then before implementing lambda expressions within our twenty one game we cover some of the rexpressions that can be used on list such as ToList(), Sum(), Min(), Max() and Where() and what 'x =>' means in regards to the syntax of an expression. We will then implement such expressions within out Twenty One game at a later date.

## 32 LAMBDA EXPRESSIONS ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/Lambda_Express_Assogn)
An assignment where we use lambda expressions on our Employee class which we have been using in prior assignments. Firstly we generate two lists of first and second names, then utilising for loops we create an employee object taking a first and last names from our lists and add the new instance to a list of Employee objects. Then we use a foreach loop to iterate through the list of Employee objects and create a new list where we add only employees with the first name Joe, then we output the list to the console. We then do the exact same thing but we utilise a lambda expression to achieve the same goal instead of a foreach loop and again we output the list to the console. Finally we use a lambda expression to create a list of employees where their employee id is greater than 5 and again ouput the list to the console.

## 33 TUTORIAL - PUTTING IT ALL TOGETHER - PARTS 1 TO 10 [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
A ten part video that covers finishing our Twenty One game, a series of code along videos that covers us turning our Twenty One game into a working application.

### PART ONE [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
We re-write the main program by asking the user for their name and starting balance, then asking them if they would like to play a game of Twenty-One after which if they do we create a new Player object and add the player to the game and providing they wish to play and have a balance greater than zero we start the game.

### PART TWO [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
Continuing on frm part one, once the while loop ends we remove the player from the Game class, and output a goodbye message to the user, then we create a new TwentyOneDealer class which inherits from the Dealer class and gives it properties to represent the dealer's hand, if they wish to stay and if they have gone bust, then we remove the dealer property from the Game class as we no longer need it. Then we add an instance of TwentyOneDealer to the TwentyOneGame class, create a new instance of it, then finally give the Player class a stay property as well.

### PART THREE [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
In this part we reset each player's hand and stay property, then do like wise with the dealer before issuing the dealer a new deck of playing cards. Then we continue working on our Play method by asking players to place there bets, we check to make sure that each player has enough to actually place there respective bets, if they do not we inform them of the fact, but if the do we deduct the amount from their balance. We have also added a dictionary to the Game class to track the bets made by each player in the game, the key / value pair is an instance of the Player class and an integer representing the amount bet.

### PART FOUR [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
We countinue writing our Play() method by dealing cards to each player, we deal cards from the dealer's deck to each player. Then add a TwentyOneRules class to the application which will be a business logic class and then add dictionary called _cardValues which is used to store the face values of the playing cards, this dictionary will be private.

### PART FIVE [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
We fill out the dictionary to represent the face values of our playing cards, aces will be set to one as default and we will account for the possiblity of them being eleven elsewhere within our program. We then add to the TwentyOneRules class a custom method to check for a potential Blackjack but first we create a seperate custom method to calculate all the potential values a hand of cards could have depending on the number of aces present, the number of values is always the number of aces plus one, which we can use to determine the size of our result array that the method will need to return. We then make use of lambda expressions to count the number of aces and the sum total value of the current hand of cards, then we add logic to check if there is only one potential value of the current hand and end the method at this point if that is the case.

### PART SIX [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
We carry on trying to calulate all possible hand values of our hand of cards by utilising a for loop, which will iterate one time for each ace in the hand, during each loop we calculate the hand value plus the value of one ace and add the result to our array of results, then when this for loop has completed we return the result array. Then we carry on with our CheckForBlackJack method, we create a new array and execute our GetAllPossibleValues method and store the return result from that method within our new array possibleValues, we use a lambda expression to find the maximum value from this array then if it is equal to 21 we have a blackjack and return true else we return false.
	Then returning to the TwentyOneGame class we execute the CheckForBlackJack method on the player hand, if this returns true then we congratulate the player then award them their winnings and exit the method, if they have not won we then deal a card to the dealer and again CheckForBlackJack and if the dealer has won we award the dealer the value of all the players bets.

### PART SEVEN [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
We first override the ToString() method of the card class so that when we use it we return the face and suit of the current instance of that card object, this is to make outputting card suit and face values easier. Then we ask the player to hit or stay and adjust the players stay property if they wish to do so, then if they do wish to hit we deal another card then afterwards check if the player has gone bust or not we add a custom method IsBusted to the TwentyOneRules class for this purpose this will return a boolean if the player goes bust we then ask them if they wish to carry on playing. Then we move on to the dealers game logic by checking if the dealer has gone bust or not, then add a another to new method to TwentyOneRules class this time called ShouldDealerStay.

### PART EIGHT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
We develop the ShouldDealerStay method then checking the possible values of the dealers hand and if one is between 17 and 21 under the rules of blackjack the dealer has to stay. Then we carry on developing our Play() method and checking if the dealer should stay or if they have gone bust, if the dealer does go bust we use lambda expressions to award the current player double there current bet, this would also end the current round and we exit the Play() method here. Then we need to account for neither the dealer or player having blackjack or going bust and we need to compare the value of their hands, this can lead to three outcomes, the player has the better hand, the dealer does or it's a tie, we can create a boolean that has three values using a ? after we type bool when declareing a variable. We then add a new rule method to TwentyOneRules which is CompareHands.

### PART NINE [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
We develop the CompareHands() method which utilises the GetAllPossibleHandValues method to get the possible hand value for both the player and dealer we then use a lambda expression to get the highest value from each hand that is lower than 22. Then we compare these two values and return a null if we have a tie, or true or false depending on if the player or dealer won. Then back in the main Play() method we assign the nullable boolean to playerWon if it's null we have a tie else either the player or dealer won the game and award winnings accordingly, we then finally ask each player if they want to continue playing the game. At this stage we now have a working TwentyOne game to play.

### PART TEN [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
Now that we have a working version of our application we can start debugging, the first bug that we encounter is that we are instantiating any of our lists or dictionaries so for each of these in our class definitions we create a private instance which results in an empty but useable object, we then point the public instance to these private instances so that we fix our original bug, this is consider good practice. Then we encounter logic errors were the program does not behave as it should firstly we forgot to execute the shuffle method after fixing this we need the game to end when the dealer has a blackjack which it does not so we add in a return keyword to the program and likewise when the player busts and we ask them if they want to play again. After fixing these issues the program is in a working state. We are now advised to use a breakpoint and step through the entire program to ensure we have a full understanding of everything that is happening within the application and to google anything we don't.

## 34 BLACKJACK GAME ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
We have now completed a version of our TwentyOne game and for this assignment we utilise Visual Studio debugging tools like breakpoints and the step-over function to work through our program and see how the whole program works and what every line of code is doing. Then we have to answer a few question about what certain lines of code within the program is doing.

## 35 TUTORIAL: FILE I/O [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
We carry on making improvements to our TwentyOne game by learning how to read and write text to a file. We add the System.IO namespace to program.cs so we can make use of file-handling, then at the beginning of the main application we create a simple string variable and assign some text to it, then we the File.WriteAllText method to save the value within the text string to a file called Logs.txt. Then in part two we learn how to take the text we saved to the file in part one and read it back into the application. Then we move on to implementing logging in our TwentyOne game application by saving to file everytime we deal a card to either the player or the dealer. We first remove the code we added to the beginning of the program and instead add logging to the deal method in our dealer class so that everytime a card is dealt it is record to file so we have a log of all cards dealt. We achieve this by using a StreamWriter object which allows use to open a file and append to it each time, we also make use of the using keyword so that the memory used by the file is freed up everytime we are finished.

## 36 FILE I/O ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/File_IO_Assign/File_IO_Assign)
A assignment to test our knowledge of the material covered in the above tutorial. We ask the user for a number, which we then save to a file before reading the number back from the file and outputting it to the console.

## 37 TUTORIAL: DATETIME [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
This tutorial covers two new data types DateTime and TimeSpan. Firstly we learn about the DateTime object which is an object which simply represents a Date and or Time, these need to be instantiated like a list they are also a value type so they cannot be null. When creating a DateTime object there are twelve different constructors you can use depending on the type of object you want, for our tutorial we pass in six parameters year, month, day, hour, minute, second. We then move on to TimeSpan objects which allow you to calculate the timespan between two DateTime objects, the result will be in days, hours, minutes and seconds. Then we move on to adding logging to our TwentyOne game by recording the date and time alongside the cards being dealt.

## 38 DATETIME ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/DateTime_Assign/DateTime_Assign)
This assignment is to show the use of the DateTime and data type. First we simply aqquire the current date and time then assign this to a date time variable we then print it to the console, then we ask the user to enter a number, then we then add the number entered to the current time we assigned to the date and time variable this will give what the time will be in X hours where X is the time the user entered. This is done using the built in AddHours method.

## 39 TUTORIAL: ASSEMBLIES AND NAMSPACES [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne)
A tutorial going over how assemblies and namespaces work within C#. Assembiles are created when the C# compiler converts our code into intermediate langauge this give us an assembly, they can also be library files (.dll), things like the .NET Framework System library are a dll file (mscorlib.dll). Then moving onto namespaces, these allow use to organise our code and classes, everything has it's own namespace, for our TwentyOne game we used the TwentyOne namespcae, we could not have another class within that namespace that uses the same name (Game, Player, TwentyOneGame, etc) but we could get around this be using a different namespace. The core system namespace we have been using this entire time uses the System namespace.

## 40 TUTORIAL: LIBRARIES [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
Covering how libraries work in C#, we first add a class library 'casino' to our solution then move all our classes to it, then change the namespace from TwentyOne to Casino and Casino.TwentyOne for TwentyOne specific classes then we compile our class into a library (.dll) which we then add as a reference to our application.

## 41 TUTORIAL: ADDITIONAL FEATURES [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
We cover some additional useful features of C#. Firstly we implement a constructor call chain to our Player class, which allows to create a second class constructor which only has the player name as a parameter and then reuse the original constructor so we have the option of multiple class constructors. Then we cover using the var keyword which allows us to implicitly declare a variable when the data type is obvious, this saves typing and is very usefuel when declare dictionaries for example. Then we cover constants which are variables that cannot be changed once assigned a value. Then in the second part of the tutorial we cover concept of GUID's which can be used to give a user a unqiue identifier, we utilise this in our TwentyOne game by adding a guid property called Id to give the a unqiue Id and then log this Id to our log file so that we can see the Id of each player.

## 42 ADDITIONAL FEATURES ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/AddFeaturesAssign/AddFeaturesAssign)
This is assignment shows that we understand how to use constance variables within our program, then we create a class called Game which has an inital constructor that requires three parameters and then a second call chain constructor which only requires two, then we instaniate two instances of the game class utlising the var keyword.

## 43 TUTORIAL: MORE ON EXCEPTION HANDLING [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/TwentyOne/TwentyOne)
An advanced tutorial on exception handling, in part one we learn to use the tryPrase method to cast user input to an integer and then set a boolean variable depending on if the cast was successful, this allows us to implement exception handling within our program, we account for both the user entering a string and and decimal places. We add this to two points in the program when the user is entering the ammount they have bought with them and placing a bet. Then in the second part of the tutorial we place the main Play method into a try / catch block and throw an exception if the user attempts to enter a negative number and end the program at that point, entering a negative number constitutues cheating as the player can gain money even if they lose so we need to define our own exception if this occurs, we do this by creating a FraudException class and defining two constructor methods to use to throw exceptions then the user attempts to cheat.

## 44 EXCEPTION HANDLING ASSIGNMENT [(CODE)](https://github.com/ProfSFrink/Basic-C-Sharp-Projects/blob/main/ExceptHandAssign/ExceptHandAssign)
An assignment to show our understanding of exception handling.
